---
layout: post
date: 0005-07-01
name: songs
title: "Songs"
category: interpersonal-skills
comments: true
---

Songs are a big part of the FOP experience, but most cannot be done justice in this handbook. To truly experience a song, ask a fellow FOP leader or group of leaders to perform it for you.

### Banana Cheer

Bananas have no thumbs, bananas do not smile, bananas stand up straight. 

Bananas of the world unite! Bananas split!

Go bananas, go go bananas! (repeat, while dancing and spinning)

Peel bananas, peel peel bananas (repeat, while peeling and spinning)

Peel it to the left, peel it to the right, peel it down the middle and uh, take a bite.

### The Bean Song

(sung to the tune of jesus loves me lol) (repeat after me song)

VERSE:

My dog Lima likes to roam

My dog Lima left his home

He came back so very clean

Where oh where has LIMA BEAN


CHORUS:

LIMA BEAN LIMA BEAN

WHERE OH WHERE HAS LIMA BEAN


Replace "lima" with any type of bean: pinto, string, jumping, human, LL, magic, etc.

### Beaver Song

Beavers one beavers all lets all do the beaver call.

Beavers two beavers three lets all climb the beaver tree.

Beavers four beavers five lets all do the beaver jive.

Beavers six beavers seven lets all fly to beaver heaven.

Beavers eight beavers nine, stop it's beaver time.

### Boom Boom Chang

Hey FOP 3 (Yeah?) My name is Lizzie (Yeah?) I've got a dance (Yeah?) And it goes like this: (What, what what?) Boom boom chang chang boom chang. 

Each round, a new person "calls" the song and demonstrates a dance move for one cycle. The entire group does the dance move for another cycle, and then the entire group does each preceding dance move for one cycle until each member of the circle has added a dance move. Great for a warm up and name reminder.

### Canoe/Switch Song

Boats passing, away from (sing Wey oh, oh wey oh way)/towards (sing Lie lie lie lie, lie lie lie lie, lie lie lie lie lie) home about to embark on/after two years of hunting on the sea.

### Eat A (the Americanized version) 

Eat

Eat a

Eat a lot a Pizza

Eat a lot a, eat a lot a, eat a lot a pizza

Oh, no no no, don't eat the pizza

Pizza got a lot a hot and spicy pepperoni on it 

Got a lot a hot and spicy roni on the top

### ERA's song

Ground squirrel, ground squirrel, shake your bushy tail (repeat)

Crinkle up your little nose, put a nut between your toes 

Ground squirrel, ground squirrel, shake your bushy tail

(REPEAT faster and faster!)

### Gopher Song

(Invented by Nate Dern.)

Hey! What's that, under the ground?

Shhh! I think I hear a little sound.

I hear a foot: tap tap (pause) tap tap (while tapping your foot).

I hear a paw: claw claw (pause) claw claw (while clawing with your hand).

I see a face: gnaw gnaw (pause) gnaw gnaw (while gnawing and turning your face).

It's Gopher Time! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go!

To sing the song, start with the first two verses, and the tapping verse. Then repeat all those verses and add the clawing verse. Repeat again, adding the gnawing verse. Then sing the whole thing.

### Moose

(Make up your own verses, too, and add movements...) 

There was a great big moose, Who liked to drink a lot of juice (x2)

Chorus: Singin' wa-oh. Way-o-way-o way-o way-o Waaaay-o way-o. Way-o way-o way-o way-o.

The moose's name was Fred, He liked to drink his juice in bed (x2) 

CHORUS

He drank his juice with care, But he got some in his hair (x2)

CHORUS

He had a sista named Rita, Who liked to eat a lot of pita. X2

CHORUS


Now he's a sticky moose, But he's a moose, Full of juice, On the looooose 

CHORUS

### The Pirate Song

(Introduced by Becky Hersher '11) 

When I was one, I sucked my thumb

The day I went to sea I climbed aboard the pirate ship

The captain said to me

We're going this way, that way, forward, backward 

Over the Irish Sea

A bottle of Coke to soothe my throat

And that's the life for me!

Oh oh oh HEY, oh oh oh HO

When I was two, I tied my shoe

The day I went to sea...etc.

(3 skinned my knee, 4 slammed the door, 5 learned to drive)

### Ride That Pony!

(Form two circles: one facing out, one facing in.) 

Ride, ride, ride that pony, get up and ride that big fat pony. Ride, ride, ride that pony, this is what she told me.

Back to back to back, my baby, front to front to front, my baby Side to side to side, my baby, this is what she told me.

### Tarzan

(This is a repeat after me song.)

Taaarzan

Swingin on a rubber band

Taaarzan

Got hit by a fryin pan.

Ouch that hurt

Now Tarzan has a tan And I hope it don't peel Like a banana

Jane

Riding on a bullet train 

Jane

Got hit by an airplane 

Ouch that hurt

Now Jane has a pain, and Tarzan has a tan and I hope it don't peel

Like a banana.

Cheetah

A-groovin' to the beatah 

Cheetah

Got eatin by a beaver 

Ouch that hurt

Now cheetah is no vita and Jane has a pain and Tarzan has a tan and I hope it don't peel,

Like a banana.

### The Penguin Dance

Have you ever seen a penguin come to tea?

Take a look at me, a penguin you will see.

Penguins, attention! Penguins, salute!

Right arm!

(Repeat the verse adding a body part movement each time: left arm, right leg, left leg, nod your head, stick out your tongue, turn around)

### The Princess Pat

(This is a repeat after me song.)

The Princess Pat. (The Princess Pat.)

Lived in a tree. (Lived in a tree.)

She sailed across (She sailed across)

The seven seas. (The seven seas.)

(Then the whole group sings the verse again without repeating.)

She sailed across / The channel two / And brought with her / The rickabambo.

Now what is that / Its something made / By the Princess Pat. / Its red and gold / And purple too. / That's why its called / the rickabambo.

Now captain Jack / Had a mighty fine crew / He sailed across / The channel two.

But his ship sunk / And yours will too / If you forget / The rickabambo.

### The Self-Worth Song

(This is a repeat after me song)

I'm big, I'm strong, I'm ready for whatever comes along.

I've got good friends, we'll stick together till the end.

I like myself! I'm worth a lot! I like myself! I'm worth a lot!

And don't you tell me that I'm not 'cause you can't see inside of me.

### Young Rider

(Courtesy of Susan: mount yo' hahwse and saddle up!)

(bouncing) Young rider, apple-cheeked one, come hither riding. On your steed, so proud and prancing (toss your head), come hither riding(with gusto and arms thrown out). No matter where I ride! (indicating the peaks looming all around) Slavic mountains by my side! (scouting to either side with hand shielding eyes) To shomora, to shomo-o-o-o-ra (= little heart)

### Boba the Fett

(This is a repeat after me song.)

My backpack's got jets

I'm Boba the Fett

I bounty hunt

For Jabba the Hut

To Finance my Vet

I chill in... Deep Space

A mask is over my FACE

I deliver the price,


But still narrow my eyes,

Because my time I don't like to waste.

Get down.

### Captain Jack

(Credit to Brett Silverman; call and response each line.) 

Hey OH Captain Jack.

Take me down to the railway track.

Got my boots, got my hat.

I'm gonna be in a marchin' band.

Go left, go left, go left go right go left.

Go left, go right, go pick up the tracks, go left go right go left.

(Repeat faster and faster.)
         
### Little Red Wagon

(Call and response after each line.) 

You can't ride in my little red wagon

Front seat's broken and the axle's draggin'

Chugga

Chugga, chugga, chugga

This is the second verse, different from the first

A little bit louder and a little bit worse!

Front seat's broken and the axle's draggin'

Chugga

Chugga, chugga, chugga

(Repeat, getting louder and louder.)


### The Princess Pat

(This is a repeat after me song.)

The Princess Pat. (The Princess Pat.)

Lived in a tree. (Lived in a tree.)

She sailed across (She sailed across)

The seven seas. (The seven seas.)

(Then the whole group sings the verse again without repeating.)

She sailed across / The channel two / And brought with her / The rickabambo.

Now what is that / Its something made / By the Princess Pat. / Its red and gold / And purple too. / That’s why its called / the rickabambo.

Now captain Jack / Had a mighty fine crew / He sailed across / The channel two. But his ship sunk / And yours will too / If you forget / The rickabambo.

### The Pipeline Chant

(Sing slowly and quietly at first, increasing in volume as you repeat)

One! We are the people!

Two! You can't defeat us!

Three! We will not let you build this pipeline!

### The Love Song

(Ask Fri Lavey, Kenton Shimozaki, or Luke Heitman for the tune)

Love the life you live

With all your heart and all your soul

And all your mind and

Love all humankind

As you would \*CLAP\* love yourself


Loooooooove the life you liiiiiiiiive

With all your heaaaaaart

And all your soul so you can

Let your love grow!


\*CLAPPING TO THE BEAT\*

We got, all our love to give

We got, all our lives to live

We got, love inside our soul

And it will make us whoooole (get funky with that last note)


### The Rattlin' Bog

Chorus:

Ho ro the rattlin' bog

The bog down in the valley-o

Ho ro the rattlin' bog

The bog down in the valley-o



In that bog there was a tree

A rare tree, a rattlin' tree

The tree in the bog, and the bog in the valley-o

[Chorus]

In that tree there was a branch

A rare branch, a rattlin' branch

The branch in the tree, and the tree in the bog, and the bog down in the valley-o

[Chorus]

On that branch there was a twig

A rare twig, a rattlin' twig

The twig on the branch, and the branch in the tree, and the tree in the bog in the valley-o

[Chorus]

On that twig there was a nest

A rare nest, a rattlin' nest

The nest on the twig, and the twig on the branch, and the branch on the tree, and the tree in the bog, and the bog down in the valley-o

[Chorus]

In that nest there was a feather

A rare feather, a rattlin' feather

The feather in the nest, and the nest on the twig, and the twig on the branch, and the branch on the tree, and the tree in the bog, and the bog down in the valley-o

[Chorus]

On that feather there was a tick

A rare tick, a rattlin' tick

The tick on the feather, and the feather in the nest, and the nest on the twig, and the twig on the branch, and the branch on the tree, and the tree in the bog, and the bog down in the valley-o

[Chorus]

In that tick there was some blood

A rare blood, a rattlin' blood

The blood in the tick, and the tick on the feather, and the feather in the nest, and the nest on the twig, and the twig on the branch, and the branch on the tree, and the tree in the bog, and the bog down in the valley-o

[Chorus]

In that blood there was a world

A rare world, a rattlin' world

And the world in the blood, and the blood in the tick, and the tick on the feather, and the feather in the nest, and the nest on the twig, and the twig on the branch, and the branch on the tree, and the tree in the bog, and the bog down in the valley-o

[Chorus]

In that world there was a bog

A rare bog, a rattlin' bog

And the bog in the world, and the world in the blood, and the blood in the tick, and the tick on the feather, and the feather in the nest, and the nest on the twig, and the twig on the branch, and the branch on the tree, and the tree in the bog, and the bog down in the valley-o


### Fix My Heart (with a Med Kit)

[Link to recording!](https://www.dropbox.com/s/58zj52t2ww86wgn/Fix%20My%20Broken%20Heart%20%28With%20The%20Med%20Kit%29.mp3?dl=0)

I

Thinking back on the summer of 04 

IV

Leaving High School’s pretty rough

My girlfriend left me and my heart’s still sore

IV

She said she had enough

IV							I

But now I’m on FOP and things are looking up

IV 						V

Just my leader’s looking pretty good

IV 			    I

Goodness me the case may be

IV 				V

A Romance in the Woods


F

Fix my Heart (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

IV

With the med kit (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

I

Fix my heart (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

IV

With the medkit (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

IV		    I

Already got it out

IV 		   			I

And I really haven’t got a doubt

IV					V   	IV

That you can fix my broken heart

(no chord)

With the med kit


I

You think that you’re in love with your co-leader Doug

IV

Who’s a rugged, handsome outdoorsman

I

If you take a quick look from your leader handbook,

IV

The hotspot on my heart could use some moleskin

IV				 I

I know that there’s no hop on fop

IV				V

But do you love me maybe kinda sorta?

IV			   I

Won’t you fix my broken heart?

IV					V

Before you help that kid's beating aorta?



I

Fix my Heart (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

IV

With the med kit (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

I

Fix my heart (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

IV

With the medkit (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

IV		    I

Already got it out

IV 		   			I

And I really haven’t got a doubt

IV					V   	IV

That you can fix my broken heart

(no chord)

With the med kit


(harmonica solo)

I wish I hadn’t farted under the tarp

I think I may have blown my chance

But baby I could make it up by giving you some gorp

Or doing the hungarian foot dance

Straighten them knees and sting my bees

And dislocated shoulders

Don’t you see that you and me

Gotta spoon before it gets colder?


Fix my Heart (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

With the med kit (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

Fix my heart (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

With the medkit (doodoo doodoo doodoo)

Already got it out

And I really haven’t got a doubt

That you can fix my broken heart

With the med kit