---
layout: post
date: 0004-01-01
name: service
title: "Service"
category: technical-skills
comments: true
---

Service trips are wilderness trips that combine backpacking and trail work. Generally, wilderness service trips entail 1–2 days of trail work with an experienced caretaker and 4–5 days of backpacking. These trips allow FOP to give back to the national forests we visit through trail work and maintenance while providing a great opportunity for a FOP trip to build teamwork and cooperation. Some years, FOP also offers site-based service trips based on participant interest.

Service trips were introduced to FOP by SC ’93 as backpacking trips that did 1-2 days of trail work with the GMC in Vermont in order to give back to the national forests FOP visits and cherishes.

### Purpose and Philosophy

At its core, FOP is a service organization. Our program engages in service through our commitment to first-year orientation and advising. Service trips offer a unique opportunity for FOP to give back to the beautiful national forests we visit, as well as providing a glimpse into potential service opportunities at Harvard. Additionally, service trips allow incoming first-years the chance to participate in FOP in both backpacking and non-backpacking contexts, the latter of which can provide unique opportunities for reflection and teambuilding.

On a backpacking trip, an important source of group cohesion is the challenge of hiking from campsite to campsite with everything we need on our backs. There is a sense of group accomplishment that comes from achieving a certain amount of mileage each day or summitting a high mountain. Service projects offer a different and powerful challenge around which the group can rally and bond. As a leader, you are encouraged to place an emphasis on teamwork and use the project as a way of creating strong ties between members of the group. Additionally, you are encouraged to emphasize the importance of the project for the future of the wilderness and future hikers. Historically, trail work has included the building of wooden staircases (known as check steps), digging water bars, constructing latrines, emptying trail drainage systems, and clearing trails.

### Logistics

The development of service projects is managed by the caretakers of the AMC and GMC. The caretakers will organize the projects and bring the necessary equipment to the backcountry to work with your trip. While the caretakers are experienced in trail maintenance and using the equipment, it is important for leaders to discuss the project, proper use of equipment, and expectations for the work day upon the first meeting in the backcountry with both the caretaker and your FOPpers.

It is also recommended that service trip leaders discuss how they want to frame the concept of service. One important consideration is how trip leaders can make service a meaningful part of their trip even though it only accounts for a short period? How will leaders engage with different perspectives on service coming from the diverse backgrounds of participants?

#### 24 Hour Plan

Think about how you want to introduce and present concept of service to FOPpers. Some participants will have indicated a preference for a service trip, while others will be less familiar with the unique aspects of a service trip. Incorporate this introduction about service during the first night on campus as part of your 24-Hour Plan. You will also want to ensure that teaching about FOP stranger policy occurs early on in the trip as you will be more likely to interact with strangers on your trip.

##### Day Hiking Guidelines

The following is a list of required gear that you and your FOPpers must bring to the service site, especially if you are leaving your packs at a shelter, bivy site, or lodge:
- Med Kit (and a sleeping pad)
- Full personal raingear
- Two water bottles per person
- Lunch food
- Extra clothing, especially warm layers
Hopefully each FOPper will be able to detach the tops of their backpacks or they will have brought an extra daypack that FOP has recommended.

#### Safety Policies and Procedures

Service trips have additional risks related to the completion of a project in sometimes less than ideal conditions with potentially dangerous equipment. It is for these reasons that service FOP leaders must be extremely vigilant. The safety of participants must always take precedence over the completion of the project. Projects are set in terms of days, not projects to be completed. The expectation is that FOP will contribute to the project, but not necessarily complete the project if time or other factors make this undesirable. You are expected to do the best you can, but never to allow the project to compromise the safety of participants.

##### Supervision

- FOP leaders are expected to oversee the safe use of all equipment and proper execution of the project as explained by the caretakers.
- FOP leaders are expected to consider and make participants aware of environmental risks (e.g. excessive sun exposure, cold and/or wet conditions, unsafe proximity to steep slopes, etc.).
- Participants should be made aware of the location of FOP leaders throughout the project.
- FOP leaders should inform participants of the location of the medical kit throughout the project.
- Participants always have the option to refrain from activity they consider to be physically or emotionally unsafe.

##### Instruction and Execution

- AMC and GMC caretakers are expected to explain the proper use of equipment.
- Participants are expected to conduct themselves in a manner consistent with the instruction of FOP leaders and caretakers.
- No horseplay.
- FOPpers are not allowed to use chainsaws.
- FOPpers should be instructed on the proper way to lift heavy objects, i.e. avoid lifting with the back by bending at the knees.
- FOP leaders and FOPpers should create a communication system to eliminate dangers such as falling trees and branches, e.g. before tree falls: "clear area," then "falling" to indicate the start of the tree falling.

Debriefs of service at the end of the day are probably the most appropriate forum for this type of discussion. Some possible debrief questions are:

- How did you feel about the work you did today?
- What are we trying to accomplish? Do you think this project is important? Why do you think this project is important?
- Was there a time today when you needed help with an aspect of the project? Did you ask for help? Did someone else offer help to you?
- Did you learn something today?

Interacting and sharing power with service agencies:

- Talk to the service leader about how the day(s) will go ahead of time. You might want to address breaks, lunch, how much work is planned, and when the end of the day will be.
- As leaders, you are responsible for reading the group and making decisions that depend on that.
- Don't be afraid to ask the service leader if you can modify the project to better suit your group. They are generally very nice and flexible.
- Talk about logistics, power sharing, and FOP rules.
- If possible, try to get in touch with your service leader during pre-FOP.

Things to do during downtime:

- Some service trips end up with a significant amount of downtime since you don’t always move camp every night.

- Although FOP songs and games are great, longer, more significant activities can be useful for filling time and making an evening meaningful.

Medical issues:

- Some FOPpers are on service trips due to pre-existing medical conditions that exclude them from another FOP trip.
- Pay attention to medical conditions during the initial medical check in and ask everyone why they are on a service trip. You will have enlightening conversations about service thoughts, medical conditions, or both!

Tools:

- Make sure your service leader reviews safety protocols and how to use tools properly and safely.
- Learn how to safely and effectively carry tools. Think about carrying and packing tools in the pattern of leaving camp.
