---
layout: post
date: 0006-11-01
name: post-fop
title: "Post-FOP"
category: back-on-campus
comments: true
---

The end of FOP is a hectic time for FOPpers and leaders alike. As leaders, you are responsible for helping with the gear cleanup on both Saturday and Sunday after the trips. After helping with cleanup and receiving their T-shirts, FOPpers will head off into the Yard to begin their Harvard careers.

Studies have shown that the first six weeks of adjustment to college are the most crucial. Giving your FOPpers a supportive environment during this time in particular can have a lasting impact on their time at college. Those early weeks are busy for everyone, but they are also a time when FOPpers can most benefit from your advice and support. Particularly during this time, think about checking in on your FOPpers and getting the group together to support members of your trip who are participating in performances or sporting events.

### Reunions

Your capacity as a leader changes once you return to town. You have already played an important role in your FOPpers’ transition to Harvard, which you should continue to do throughout the year. FOP groups should get together for reunions, which can be a lot of fun. Reunions that have worked well in the past include picnics, bowling, canoeing, treasure hunts, an evening touring each FOPper’s room, volunteering together (soup kitchens, clean ups, or helping at events), Sunday brunch, pizza dinner and ice cream outings. Also, groups could go on trips to the observatory, sporting events, Fresh Pond, Boston Harbor, Arnold Arboretum, or Mt. Auburn Cemetery. Some groups do this more than others, and it is ultimately up to you and your group. Encourage FOPpers to organize reunions too, or plan meals with individual FOPpers. (In planning reunions, all leaders must uphold the alcohol policy found under “Policies and Procedures.”)

There is nothing more satisfying than a group which “works,” but don’t sweat it. The combination of personalities, despite our best efforts, might not work out. Some groups have great trips but can’t seem to get it together for reunions. Some leaders are close friends with ex-FOPpers, others are not. We hope you value ongoing relationships with all of your FOPpers.

Although you may not realize it, you have significantly affected your FOPpers’ adjustment to a new environment. And you will continue to be a role model to them even as your relationship develops more into one as peers. You should recognize your position of advantage (as a FOP leader and as someone who knows their way around Harvard).

### FOPper Relationships

(See Policies and Procedures.)

It is important to note that FOP leadership occurs directly on the week-long trip, but your responsibility to your FOPpers continues for the rest of their first year at Harvard. The impact you have on your FOPpers is much greater than most leaders ever realize, and because of this, it is important to think seriously about how you conduct yourself with and around your FOPpers during their first year. FOP leaders are expected to be role models and to act responsibly in the presence of their FOPpers throughout the year.

As a leader, you have guided your FOPpers during an intense experience and your group is going to trust you. Remember that your professional responsibilities to FOP and your FOPpers still continues after the wilderness portion of the trip has been completed. It is a good idea to keep tabs on your FOPpers and show that you care about them, but leaders need to maintain the emotional safety of the FOP experience by maintaining safe boundaries around how closely you interact with your FOPpers. Draw the line at any relationship that violates the trust that the group or that FOP expects of you.

Obvious violations of group safety include an exclusive or romantic relationship with one of your FOPpers, expecting your FOPpers to perform favors for you or behaving in a manner that is inappropriate of a leader. FOP does not expect our leaders to be perfect. FOP does expect you to continue to exercise good judgment in the woods and back on campus. Your behavior on campus can continue to do a lot to make your FOPpers’ first year a good one. You can have a positive impact on your group throughout the year and beyond.

### Campus Resources

You may have a FOPper who has to face serious issues in the coming months, and your support can be helpful, but (again) know your boundaries. It is natural to want to help someone get through a rough time, but realize that you have your own limits and may not be able to give the support they need without some help. There are many resources on campus to help students (and friends of students) who are going through difficult times. This list can help guide you and your FOPper towards useful resources:

#### Harvard Support Resources
- Accessible Education Office — Supports the needs and rights of individuals with disabilities or chronic health issues
- Office of Alcohol and Other Drug Services (AODS) — Functions as a multidimensional resource that offers a wide range of programs and services aimed at reducing the negative consequences associated with heavy, episodic drinking and substance abuse. (617) 496-0133
- Bureau of Study Counsel (BSC) — Supports students in their academic development and ensures access to educational opportunities (617) 495-2581
- Counseling and Mental Health Services (CAMHS) — provides students with confidential counseling and psychological services for a wide variety of concerns (617) 495-2042
- Harvard University Health Services (HUHS) — (617) 495-5711 After-hours / emergency number.
- Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (OSAPR) — Provides confidential 24-hour information, assistance, and support for those who have experienced sexual assault and related forms of interpersonal violence, including sexual harassment and relationship abuse (617) 495-5734

#### Peer Counseling Services

- Room 13 — General peer counseling on any topic. It offers a supportive, sympathetic ear, and maintains strict confidentiality. Thayer Basement. Drop-Ins and Hotline: Nightly 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. (617) 495-4969
- ECHO — Specializing in concerns surrounding eating, body image, and self-esteem, both for those dealing with these issues and those concerned for others. Eliot T-24. Drop-in: Sun.–Wed. 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Hotline: nightly 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. (617) 495-8200
- Contact — Specializing in the areas of sexual orientation, sexuality, sex, gender and relationships. Thayer Basement. Drop-ins: Thu., Fri, Sun. 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Hotline: Wed.–Sun. 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. (617) 495-8111
- Response — Specializing in concerns relating to relationships, sexual abuse, and rape. Thayer Basement. Drop-ins: Sun.-Thur. 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Hotline: nightly 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. (617) 495- 9600
- Indigo — Specializing in issues of race, socioeconomic status, first generation, undocumented, and foster care status. Adams H-entry Basement. Drop-ins: Mon., Tue., Thu. 8 p.m. to 12 a.m. Hotline: nightly 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. (617) 659-0140

Finally, we would like to express the fact that FOP is a community both between leaders and FOPpers, and among the FOP leaders as well. While for most of you, FOP plays a significant role in your lives for only a few days of the year, we would like to stress that being a leader in fact means more than that. It means being part of an especially talented and caring group of people who are supportive of you and have much to offer. Please remember that FOP itself is a community back in Cambridge and be supportive of fellow leaders both in and out of the wilderness. Remember also that aspects of the program continue throughout the year. Feel free to contact the SC about helping out on projects and be on the lookout for opportunities to get involved.

### Reports and Evaluations

In addition to communicating with your FOPpers, it's important to keep in touch with the rest of the program. Besides meeting with an SC buddy, you'll get several forms to complete. It's really important to get these done, on time! Evaluations are an important way to get feedback from leaders and FOPpers so that we can maintain and improve the quality and safety of FOP trips in the future. They are also a vital means of communication between FOPpers, leaders, Steering Committee, the Director, and the University. Remember how useful last year's route evaluation was to you this year? Now it's your turn to provide a thorough evaluation for next year's trip. We mention these now so that you can take notes throughout FOP. This is part of your responsibility to FOP; we expect that the following paperwork be completed in a timely and legible manner.

#### Pre-FOP Evaluations

FOP is a student-run program, and we are all responsible for food and equipment pack-out and cleanup. After Pre-FOP you'll be asked to give a little feedback about the first-aid review, skills reviews, meetings, food, and general atmosphere of Pre-FOP. Summer staff really uses these evaluations to plan Pre-FOP for next year!

#### FOPper Evaluations

On the bus back, FOPpers will be asked to fill out a short evaluation of the route, food, leaders, communication, safety, and anything else they care to comment on. Please collect a completed evaluation form from each of your FOPpers.

#### Co-leader Evaluations

Throughout the trip, you and your co-leader should discuss the strengths and weaknesses of your co-leadership efforts. You will also each individually fill out a form evaluating your co; carefully consider what you say here and try to be specific about strengths and areas for improvement. These insights will help you grow as a leader.

#### Route Evaluations

You and your co should also take time during the trip to detail the mileage, terrain, water availability, views, campsites, and other important information from each day of your trip. FOP generally runs the same routes, so this information is important for future planning.

[UHS]: http://huhs.harvard.edu/
[BSC]: http://bsc.harvard.edu/
[OSAPR]: [http://osapr.harvard.edu/
[Room 13]: http://www.hcs.harvard.edu/room13/
[ECHO]: http://www.hcs.harvard.edu/~echo/
[CONTACT]: http://www.hcs.harvard.edu/~harvardcontact/
[Response]: https://www.facebook.com/HarvardResponse/
[SHARC]: http://harvardsharc.squarespace.com/#about
[FOP]: fop.fas.harvard.edu
